Most businesses think the YouTube
algorithm decides how well their video
performs. But that's not true because
you can control it if you know how to
make videos the right way. So, in this
video, I am going to show you behind the
scenes of my own video creation system
that has now generated hundreds of
millions of views and tens of millions
of dollars for businesses all over the
world. We're going to look at ideiation,
planning, filming, my editing system
that knocks out videos at lightning
pace, and how I measure and launch
videos so that they grow my business and
my channel faster. By the end, you're
going to understand exactly where to
focus your time to get the best results.
To start, you need to understand why
most businesses make videos totally the
wrong way and they fail as a result. And
the best way to think about this is that
a great YouTube video is like building a
house of cards. The thing that matters
the most is the bottom row because if
you screw that up, the whole thing
collapses. So, how does this relate to
YouTube? Well, there is tons of awful
advice on YouTube telling you to just
post videos with this idea that posting
stuff will eventually get you somewhere.
But that's like doing this. If I just
keep making videos, eventually this
house of cards is going to build itself.
Right. Right. That doesn't work because
making videos is the middle row in our
house of cards. The bottom which we
build on, that is where you control the
algorithm. So, this is how I make videos
in a way that's helped me make millions
from YouTube. And it all starts with
step one on the bottom row. And all you
do is you ask yourself, what's the goal
for my video? And there are three goals.
I'm going to give you an example of each
to show you why this matters so much. So
this video's goal was to get email
signups. So I optimized the video to do
that. In it, I used a tool to make a
point, one that I had built myself, and
then I told viewers, you can get this
tool, too, if you click the link below.
This caused 12% of the viewers to click.
Now, if you're not sure if that's good
or not, the average link click below a
YouTube video is less than 1% based on
Rev Tracks data and we've got tracking
700 million views. Now, now this video's
goal was sales. So, I made the content
about a very targeted problem I know my
dream buyers have and that they want to
get rid of. And as you can see from my
Rift Track data, this video made $4 per
view as a result. So, you get results
like this when you make a video showing
your dream buyers how to solve the
problem that keeps them up at night.
that hooks them and they go, "No way.
This has happened to me." And then when
you show them how to solve it, they go
clicking on your sales page. And then
this video's goal was just views. Now,
if you want views, jumping on a trend is
the easiest way to do that. So, because
I wanted views, I just made a video
talking about new AI and it performed
really well. Now, the reason you need a
goal before you make a video is because
you then design your entire video around
it and that's how you get results. Now,
if you don't do this, you just won't
think tactically enough. Step two of our
system, you take your goal and you
ideulate a video around it. Now,
ideation is basically coming up with
your videos, your angle, your thumbnail,
and your title. But how do you
strategically come up with that in a way
that could generate you more sales,
views, and leads? Well, there's three
questions you can ask yourself every
time you want to talk about something.
So, let's say I want to make a video
about optimizing a sales page for
conversion. I would ask myself, one, do
my viewers even know what that means?
Two, do they understand why it matters?
Three, do they think it solves the
problem they actually have? And based on
this example, the answer is no in every
case. But does that mean I wouldn't make
that video now? Absolutely not, cuz I
know how life-changing that information
is. So, I'm not going to quit on my
viewers. Instead, I'm going to
reposition my idea so it becomes
something they do understand why it
matters to them. So, most people would
turn around and say, "My video idea is
going to be called how to optimize a
sales page for conversion." I would
however call it I studied a thousand
YouTubers. Here's why they can't make
money. It's the same content positioned
in a way I know my viewers understand
the value of. Then inside the video I
would talk about optimizing sales pages
for conversion. But Ed, how did you come
up with that thumbnail and that title?
Well, most businesses think that coming
up with a thumbnail and title is all
about copying the biggest channels in
your niche who are already getting a ton
of views. That doesn't work because if
you try and do that for your viewers,
it's like watching a Queen tribute act
playing on a Thursday night in your
local bar to a crowd of five. It's a
little bit cringe even if they are good
because they can tell who you're trying
to copy and can also see that hardly
anyone has turned up to watch you. And
they ain't going to ever
like Freddy. I mean, think about how
YouTube works. Your viewers are watching
the biggest channels in your niche. So,
if I copy Horoszi's thumbnail style and
his title, my audience are going to see
it and go, "Ed's trying to be Horoszi.
That's sweet." And then they're going to
go and watch him because unlike Freddy,
he's not dead. So, they can have the
real thing. So, copying the biggest
channels so closely doesn't really work.
What you do is this. So, about a year
ago, I made a video called YouTube's
hard until businesses know this. And the
thumbnail said make boring thumbnails.
And then a few weeks ago, you're going
to see I made a video called YouTube's
hard until businesses do this. and I
wrote make boring videos in the
thumbnail. Now, the reason that
differentiates my channel is because
that's not copying. That's a sequel to
one of my own hits. And because people
love a sequel, I have an original
franchise of content on my channel that
makes me look unique. But where did that
original idea come from? Well, this is
how you ideate without looking like a
cheap knockoff. So, to make this, I
borrowed Jeff Nippod's thumbnail style
from the fitness niche. I'd noticed the
word boring popping up on very high
performing video titles across YouTube.
And I probably saw a title structure
somewhere like X is hard until you do
this. Otherwise, I went renegade and
made it up. Can't actually remember that
time. So, when you take what works from
multiple videos across different niches
and then apply it to your own, you
create something original that if it
works, you repeat. And then we move on
to the final step in building the base
of our house of cards, planning. Now,
most businesses screw this up because
they listen to advice like to plan a
video, just jot a few points on paper
and then just talk about it.
Sorry. All right, so let me explain why
this will not work for you. About 10
years ago, Daniel Priestley released
what I think is probably the best
business book of all time. It's called
Oversubscribed. And in it, he shared the
marketing system he used to generate
millions. Since then, he's written more
books. He has built software companies.
He's appeared on the biggest podcasts in
the world. He's coached entrepreneurs.
and he's created frameworks that break
businesses down into really simple
practical ideas anyone can understand.
So to put it simply, he's just a
world-class expert. So give him a topic
and he'll probably grab a pen and paper,
sketch out one of his frameworks, and
explain it clearly with almost no effort
planning our script. But if you haven't
worked hands-on with people for over a
decade, you don't have frameworks that
you've created from 20 years of
repetition, you don't know all of the
problems your target audience face, or
the simplest way to explain them. How
can you possibly expect to make great
videos that can compete with people like
him by saying, "Oh, I'm just going to
jot down a few bullet points and talk to
camera." And here's why this advice gets
so much worse. Planning your video is
where you actually develop the
frameworks and the methods that simplify
your content. And those frameworks that
you figure out over time become valuable
intellectual property that you can use
for years. So when I'm planning a video,
I'm not just asking myself, what's a
good way to describe this? I am hunting
for the next breakthrough explanation
that I will keep teaching for years that
will change more lives when people hear
it and go, "Oh my gosh, that makes so
much more sense now, Ed. Thank you." So,
if you're out there telling people to
just scribble some bullet points and
present, for the love of God, stop. You
are creating a butterfly effect that
makes the whole world dumber. So, here's
how I've planned videos for years. So,
here's how I've planned videos for years
to get views, sales, and leads flying
in. Now, the problem you're going to
have when you start planning is that
you're going to be very overwhelmed.
You're going to want to talk about so
many different things and you're going
to be thinking, "How long should the
video be? How deep do I go?" And your
brain, it's going to be an overwhelmed
mess. So to get around that, I like to
think of a plan as a big brain funnel
that is split into these three sections.
At the top of the funnel, I present out
loud everything that I might want to
say. I don't worry if it's wrong or
right. I just get it off my chest whilst
my computer is dictating everything I
say. So the words appear on screen like
this. Then I take my brain dump and I
throw it into AI and I just ask it to
tidy up into a list of bullet points. So
what this has done has turned overwhelm
into some structure. Then we move into
the middle of the brain funnel. So years
ago, someone came up with this idea that
to generate sales from content, you need
to confuse your viewers with a ton of
information that makes it feel like it's
so hard they couldn't possibly attempt
it on their own, so they'll pay you to
do it. But that is one immoral, but two
doesn't work. Because what happens on
YouTube is the second your viewer feels
overwhelmed, they just leave and they go
and watch someone else who makes things
feel easy for them. So here is the
secret to planning a video in this
section to achieve that. You need to
realize your job is to not give viewers
every single detail. Your job is to
strip away anything that isn't essential
so that what is left both educates and
inspires your viewers to try out what
you've taught them. When you take
something a viewer finds complicated and
you make it feel simple, it then makes
them feel smart and that makes them want
to work with you more than the other
option, which makes them feel like an
idiot. But how do you do that? Well, you
take your brain dump and you ask
yourself, what are the quickest wins on
here for them? And what could I delete
from this? And they'd still get an
amazing result without it. And that's
it. After that, you move on to the
bottom of the brain funnel. And this is
where the magic happens. And most
businesses don't even know this exists.
But the people like Daniel Priestley who
smashing it online, they know this is
what it's all about. And it works like
this. So remember the house of cards at
the start of this video. The reason I
use that is because if I had said to
you, you need to focus on the
foundations like goals, ideation, and
planning. Otherwise, nothing else will
really work. That's just words coming
out my mouth. Sure, you're going to
understand it, but it won't hit home in
the same way as my visual example
because you can literally see the
problem you'll face if you ignore me.
And then that gives me a much stronger
argument in this video. And it's a
visual hook, too. What that means is
your brain doesn't have to work as hard.
It just instantly clicks and that's what
keeps people engaged when you're
educating them. So, the bottom of the
brain funnel is all about turning your
remaining points into information that
just slips into your viewers's mind so
that they want to come back to your
channel over and over again. And you do
that like all of the experts do by
wrapping every point you make into a
story, a framework, a metaphor, or a
visual. This is where the magic happens
because we have now taken all of that
information that was at the top.
Distilled it into just what matters and
then optimize that for understanding and
it's just not possible to do all of that
off the top of your head after you've
scribbled down a few bullet points on a
bit of paper with a coffee stain on it
probably. Now, when you have that, you
then turn that plan into a script. Now,
I can hear people going, "I don't want
to write a script. I don't sound natural
on camera." But don't worry, I'm going
to show you how to fix that in a second
and why it's critical you do. So, let's
imagine I'm making a video about how to
produce YouTube thumbnails. This is what
people will sound like when they go
unscripted, which will destroy your
credibility and your viewers ability to
focus and learn from you. All right,
here we go. If your thumbnail and title
don't match the content of your video,
people will leave. So, if they click on
a video expecting one thing and then
they get something else, they feel kind
of misled and they'll drop off. And if
they feel misled, that means the
algorithm won't push you because it
thinks people don't like it. And if the
algorithm doesn't push you, you won't
get views. So, the big takeaway here is
you really need to make sure your
thumbnail and title match the content.
Otherwise, people won't stick around and
if they don't stick around, the
algorithm won't push your video and then
you won't get any views. You see the
problem with that? I rewrote that into a
script and it's this. If your funnel and
title don't match the content of your
video, people will leave and you won't
grow as a result. That's why I always
plan around expectations first. You see
the difference? What you need to realize
is your viewers's brain has a maximum
capacity. So if you keep throwing more
and more words at them and then
repeating the same point over and over
again after they've already understood
it, you're not adding clarity. You're
creating information overload and they
will tap out and they will lose
interest. That was a click, not a tap.
So look, if we look at the words from my
unscripted example, everything after the
first line was overexlained. Meaning it
created that effect. And this will
happen to you if you present without a
script because you're not presenting and
at the same time thinking how do I
optimize this sentence for cognitive
load so I say in less words and it's
faster and easier to absorb with
frameworks and metaphors and stories. So
until you have spent a decade refining
and explaining frameworks that simplify.
Just do yourself and your viewers a
favor and learn to write a script. And
then once you've done your script, we
move on to the next step and level of
our house of cards. And this is where
the process of making videos can
suddenly speed up a ton thanks to all
the work you put in already because all
we do is film. Now, most businesses
totally wreck their house of cards here
because they are presenting off of
bullet points. So, they're trying to
think and trying to work out how to come
across as confident on camera. And as a
result, they look like this. Hi there,
I'm Ed.
>> We got to remember to be looking down
the barrel.
>> Cool. So, I keep looking up.
>> We will too.
>> Hi, I'm Ed. Hi, I'm Ed. So, we want to
share with you our whole journey from
the starting process, how to plan a
film, promoting yourself. Now, if you
don't recognize me without the glasses,
that was me 9 years ago presenting my
first ever video. 100 kg of muscle
bursting out of my shirt, my arms
flailing everywhere. I was shaky. I was
nervous. And I really, really struggled
with presenting for a very long time.
When I was filming that, I was
constantly thinking to myself, what do I
say next? And that stopped the words
coming out which made me even more
nervous. And honestly, I never thought I
would crack this. But how did I overcome
this? Well, back then I had a production
company and we put like thousands of
people in front of a camera who had
never presented before and tried to get
them to make videos like you're watching
right now. And we had this philosophy.
You don't need a script. Just turn up.
We'll get you presenting. It was a
flipping disaster. People used to cry in
our studio. I had an ex paratrooper who
stood there shaking cuz he was so afraid
of the camera. CEOs who used to do talks
on stages in front of thousands of
people would come in and freeze and go,
I don't know why I can't speak. And we
would spend hours trying to get them to
say just a few lines. Then one day we
thought, hang on, let's try something
else. So we wrote a script. We dusted
off an old teleprompter. And the person
who'd been struggling smashed out the
entire script in like 15 minutes. And
the end they turned to us and went, "Oh
my gosh, it was so easy. Why was it so
hard before? And that is the exact thing
that transformed that musly guy in a
shirt that's too small into the slightly
less musly guy with the weird orange
glasses you see on camera today. Now, a
lot of people say, "I don't want to use
a teleprompter. It makes me sound
unnatural." But that's like picking up a
guitar for the first time, strumming it,
and going, "I don't sound like Brian
May. This takes practice." So, here's
what I'd recommend. Film five videos
with your script and your teleprompter.
Understand this will not be easy to
start, but it will get easier. And then
don't try to nail the whole script in
one take. Do it like I do. Deliver a few
lines and then if you mess up, just go
back to the previous line and then
retake. If a line feels off, then you
just reshoot. Filming with a
teleprompter is not a competition where
you're supposed to get everything right
in one go. It's supposed to allow you to
focus 100% of your energy on delivery,
not the words coming out of your mouth.
And this will enable you to build the
skill of presenting much faster. In
fact, right now as I'm speaking, I'm not
even thinking about what I'm saying. I
am just reading off the teleprompter
like Ron Burgundy. Okay. So, the next
step of our house of cards is editing.
And I'm going to give you a system that
me and my editor use. And it's going to
make you and your editor 10 times
faster. Now, most business owners get
very frustrated here because what
happens is they send their video to
their editor and it turns into this
endless back and forth of hours of
feedback. This system stops this. In
fact, Greg and I use this to edit maybe
a hundred videos of course content over
the last few years. And I've asked for
about 10 changes of feedback in total.
Not on each video. I lost them all. And
many were just tiny little things or
actually my fault, not his. So here's
how we do it. I film the video. I send
it to Greg who edits on something called
Da Vinci Resolve. He cuts out the
mistakes and the pauses. Then he sends
it back something called an XML file. I
open that up in Final Cut and can see
all of his cuts. I then drop my notes
right into the timeline where I want to
add things. So, if I want a specific
animation, I'll just record a loom where
I'm drawing it out in a really budget
way and explaining what I want. And then
I paste the link to the video roughly
where I want it on my timeline. I then
also dump on screenshots and notes
saying the kind of things I want in that
section of the video. Then I send this
little file back to him. He opens it. It
loads all my work onto his timeline. He
reads the notes and then he just makes
the video. Now, for me, that might take
me about half an hour to do for every
video. And what I find is some people
push back and they say, "Ed, I don't
want to do half an hour editing. I want
my editor to figure it all out." But
here's the problem. I've already built
frameworks. I've already got screenshots
and I know the exact visuals I want at
certain points. So if I have to type out
a big list of instructions every single
time or have a zoom to explain to them,
this is going to take me so long. Now,
sometimes I'll turn around and go, Greg,
can you just make that bit more
interesting, please? And he'll do his
Greg thing cuz he's really good at
editing. So, this is just the simplest
system that I think most people should
use. By the way, Greg has launched his
own channel and he's made a video about
how he edits for me in detail. I'll
leave the link below. Go and support him
otherwise I'll never make another video
again. All right, so next we move on to
the top of our house of cards. And this
part is very important because it's
where we figure out two things. First,
did the video hit the goal we set? And
second, what's our next move to get more
sales, views, and leads from the next
set of videos we produce? But before we
measure, we've got to post our video.
Now, for some reason, videos about
YouTube settings get millions of views,
and it blows my mind because all I do is
paste my product and email links below
the video in the description, and then
in the comments, and I add an end
screen, and I set the title and
thumbnail, and I hit publish. You don't
need to spend half an hour pushing
buttons. That's it. What actually
matters is measurement. So here all you
want to do is you want to go back to the
first step where we set our goal and ask
did I hit the goal was views. I check if
it's kind of got what I expected. If not
I don't look at clickthrough rate or any
of the data in the YouTube studio other
than maybe a retention graph. And I
haven't done all year my channel grew
itself magically. Measurement doesn't
need to be that complex. And the truth
is, if you've got fewer views than you
expected, it's almost always because
your title and thumbnail didn't spark
enough curiosity or your content itself
just didn't work. That's the big two
problems. You don't need a dashboard
full of overwhelming click-through rate
metrics to work that out. You can
literally just ask a friend and say, "Is
that from title making you curious to
want to click? And where in the video
did you get bored or switch off?" And
then you'll have your answer. Now, if
the goal was email signups, that's when
the YouTube studio actually becomes
incredibly harmful for businesses. So,
let me give you an example. The studio
once told me this video here was a big
old flop, a 10 out of 10 failure. But
then when I look in Rev Track, which
tracks sales and leads from YouTube
videos, it shows me it's a 1 out of 10
for clicks by a very long way. That's
basically the best performing video for
driving traffic to an email signup page
I'd ever made. So, if I had gone by
judging my video's performance,
following YouTube's views studio data, I
would have never done the things that I
did in that video again that actually
grew my business more than anything else
I'd done. So, if my goal was email, I
just look at the amount of viewers who
clicked to sign up and then how many of
them converted. If it got lots of clicks
and emails, I just repeat what I did in
another video. And if the goal was
sales, I do the same thing. I just look
at Rev Tracks data and see, did it make
me sales? And if it did, I do more of
it. And if it didn't, I do less of it.
And if the amount of people who clicked
on the link to my sales page was low,
just ask why and then I'll fix it for
the next video. And if you want to see
how other businesses use the very simple
system I've just showed you to turn more
viewers into buyers, watch this video
next and learn the real way to grow
YouTube channel business that won't kid
you into thinking bullet points on a bit
of paper are enough. Trust me, they are
not. No one will beat me. You know, it's
a guarantee.